docs/sources/datasources/tempo.md, before:

+++
title = "Tempo"
description = "High volume, minimal dependency trace storage. OSS tracing solution from Grafana Labs."
keywords = ["grafana", "tempo", "guide", "tracing"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/features/datasources/tempo"]
weight = 1400
+++

# Tempo data source

Grafana ships with built-in support for Tempo a high volume, minimal dependency trace storage, OSS tracing solution from Grafana Labs. Add it as a data source, and you are ready to query your traces in [Explore]({{< relref "../explore/_index.md" >}}).

## Add data source

To access Tempo settings, click the **Configuration** (gear) icon, then click **Data Sources** > **Tempo**.

| Name         | Description                                                                             |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Name`       | The name using which you will refer to the data source in panels, queries, and Explore. |
| `Default`    | The default data source will be pre-selected for new panels.                            |
| `URL`        | The URL of the Tempo instance, e.g., `http://tempo`                                     |
| `Basic Auth` | Enable basic authentication to the Tempo data source.                                   |
| `User`       | User name for basic authentication.                                                     |
| `Password`   | Password for basic authentication.                                                      |

### Trace to logs

> **Note:** This feature is available in Grafana 7.4+.

This is a configuration for the [trace to logs feature]({{< relref "../explore/trace-integration" >}}). Select target data source (at this moment limited to Loki data sources) and select which tags will be used in the logs query.

- **Data source -** Target data source.
- **Tags -** The tags that will be used in the Loki query. Default is `'cluster', 'hostname', 'namespace', 'pod'`.
- **Span start time shift -** A shift in the start time for the Loki query based on the start time for the span. To extend the time to the past, use a negative value. You can use time units, for example, 5s, 1m, 3h. The default is 0.
- **Span end time shift -** Shift in the end time for the Loki query based on the span end time. Time units can be used here, for example, 5s, 1m, 3h. The default is 0.
- **Filter by Trace ID -** Toggle to append the trace ID to the Loki query.
- **Filter by Span ID -** Toggle to append the span ID to the Loki query.

![Trace to logs settings](/static/img/docs/explore/trace-to-logs-settings-8-2.png 'Screenshot of the trace to logs settings')

## Query traces

You can query and display traces from Tempo via [Explore]({{< relref "../explore/_index.md" >}}).
You can search for traces if you set up the trace to logs setting in the data source configuration page. To find traces to visualize, use the [Loki query editor]({{< relref "loki.md#loki-query-editor" >}}). To get search results, you must have [derived fields]({{< relref "loki.md#derived-fields" >}}) configured, which point to this data source.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/tempo/query-editor-search.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Screenshot of the Tempo query editor showing the search tab" >}}

To query a particular trace, select the **TraceID** query type, and then put the ID into the Trace ID field.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/tempo/query-editor-traceid.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Screenshot of the Tempo TraceID query type" >}}

## Upload JSON trace file

You can upload a JSON file that contains a single trace to visualize it. If the file has multiple traces then the first trace is used for visualization.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/explore/tempo-upload-json.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Screenshot of the Tempo data source in explore with upload selected" >}}

Here is an example JSON:

```json
{
  "batches": [
    {
      "resource": {
        "attributes": [
          { "key": "service.name", "value": { "stringValue": "db" } },
          { "key": "job", "value": { "stringValue": "tns/db" } },
          { "key": "opencensus.exporterversion", "value": { "stringValue": "Jaeger-Go-2.22.1" } },
          { "key": "host.name", "value": { "stringValue": "63d16772b4a2" } },
          { "key": "ip", "value": { "stringValue": "0.0.0.0" } },
          { "key": "client-uuid", "value": { "stringValue": "39fb01637a579639" } }
        ]
      },
      "instrumentationLibrarySpans": [
        {
          "instrumentationLibrary": {},
          "spans": [
            {
              "traceId": "AAAAAAAAAABguiq7RPE+rg==",
              "spanId": "cmteMBAvwNA=",
              "parentSpanId": "OY8PIaPbma4=",
              "name": "HTTP GET - root",
              "kind": "SPAN_KIND_SERVER",
              "startTimeUnixNano": "1627471657255809000",
              "endTimeUnixNano": "1627471657256268000",
              "attributes": [
                { "key": "http.status_code", "value": { "intValue": "200" } },
                { "key": "http.method", "value": { "stringValue": "GET" } },
                { "key": "http.url", "value": { "stringValue": "/" } },
                { "key": "component", "value": { "stringValue": "net/http" } }
              ],
              "status": {}
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Linking Trace ID from logs

You can link to Tempo trace from logs in Loki or Elastic by configuring an internal link. See the [Derived fields]({{< relref "loki.md#derived-fields" >}}) section in the [Loki data source]({{< relref "loki.md" >}}) or [Data links]({{< relref "elasticsearch.md#data-links" >}}) section in the [Elastic data source]({{< relref "elasticsearch.md" >}}) for configuration instructions.

Commit message:

Add opt-in config for Node Graph in Jaeger, Zipkin, and Tempo

docs/sources/datasources/tempo.md, after:

+++
title = "Tempo"
description = "High volume, minimal dependency trace storage. OSS tracing solution from Grafana Labs."
keywords = ["grafana", "tempo", "guide", "tracing"]
aliases = ["/docs/grafana/latest/features/datasources/tempo"]
weight = 1400
+++

# Tempo data source

Grafana ships with built-in support for Tempo a high volume, minimal dependency trace storage, OSS tracing solution from Grafana Labs. Add it as a data source, and you are ready to query your traces in [Explore]({{< relref "../explore/_index.md" >}}).

## Add data source

To access Tempo settings, click the **Configuration** (gear) icon, then click **Data Sources** > **Tempo**.

| Name         | Description                                                                             |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Name`       | The name using which you will refer to the data source in panels, queries, and Explore. |
| `Default`    | The default data source will be pre-selected for new panels.                            |
| `URL`        | The URL of the Tempo instance, e.g., `http://tempo`                                     |
| `Basic Auth` | Enable basic authentication to the Tempo data source.                                   |
| `User`       | User name for basic authentication.                                                     |
| `Password`   | Password for basic authentication.                                                      |

### Trace to logs

> **Note:** This feature is available in Grafana 7.4+.

This is a configuration for the [trace to logs feature]({{< relref "../explore/trace-integration" >}}). Select target data source (at this moment limited to Loki data sources) and select which tags will be used in the logs query.

- **Data source -** Target data source.
- **Tags -** The tags that will be used in the Loki query. Default is `'cluster', 'hostname', 'namespace', 'pod'`.
- **Span start time shift -** A shift in the start time for the Loki query based on the start time for the span. To extend the time to the past, use a negative value. You can use time units, for example, 5s, 1m, 3h. The default is 0.
- **Span end time shift -** Shift in the end time for the Loki query based on the span end time. Time units can be used here, for example, 5s, 1m, 3h. The default is 0.
- **Filter by Trace ID -** Toggle to append the trace ID to the Loki query.
- **Filter by Span ID -** Toggle to append the span ID to the Loki query.

![Trace to logs settings](/static/img/docs/explore/trace-to-logs-settings-8-2.png 'Screenshot of the trace to logs settings')

### Node Graph

This is a configuration for the Node Graph visualization.

-- **Enable Node Graph -** Enables the Node Graph visualization.

## Query traces

You can query and display traces from Tempo via [Explore]({{< relref "../explore/_index.md" >}}).
You can search for traces if you set up the trace to logs setting in the data source configuration page. To find traces to visualize, use the [Loki query editor]({{< relref "loki.md#loki-query-editor" >}}). To get search results, you must have [derived fields]({{< relref "loki.md#derived-fields" >}}) configured, which point to this data source.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/tempo/query-editor-search.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Screenshot of the Tempo query editor showing the search tab" >}}

To query a particular trace, select the **TraceID** query type, and then put the ID into the Trace ID field.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/tempo/query-editor-traceid.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Screenshot of the Tempo TraceID query type" >}}

## Upload JSON trace file

You can upload a JSON file that contains a single trace to visualize it. If the file has multiple traces then the first trace is used for visualization.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/explore/tempo-upload-json.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Screenshot of the Tempo data source in explore with upload selected" >}}

Here is an example JSON:

```json
{
  "batches": [
    {
      "resource": {
        "attributes": [
          { "key": "service.name", "value": { "stringValue": "db" } },
          { "key": "job", "value": { "stringValue": "tns/db" } },
          { "key": "opencensus.exporterversion", "value": { "stringValue": "Jaeger-Go-2.22.1" } },
          { "key": "host.name", "value": { "stringValue": "63d16772b4a2" } },
          { "key": "ip", "value": { "stringValue": "0.0.0.0" } },
          { "key": "client-uuid", "value": { "stringValue": "39fb01637a579639" } }
        ]
      },
      "instrumentationLibrarySpans": [
        {
          "instrumentationLibrary": {},
          "spans": [
            {
              "traceId": "AAAAAAAAAABguiq7RPE+rg==",
              "spanId": "cmteMBAvwNA=",
              "parentSpanId": "OY8PIaPbma4=",
              "name": "HTTP GET - root",
              "kind": "SPAN_KIND_SERVER",
              "startTimeUnixNano": "1627471657255809000",
              "endTimeUnixNano": "1627471657256268000",
              "attributes": [
                { "key": "http.status_code", "value": { "intValue": "200" } },
                { "key": "http.method", "value": { "stringValue": "GET" } },
                { "key": "http.url", "value": { "stringValue": "/" } },
                { "key": "component", "value": { "stringValue": "net/http" } }
              ],
              "status": {}
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Linking Trace ID from logs

You can link to Tempo trace from logs in Loki or Elastic by configuring an internal link. See the [Derived fields]({{< relref "loki.md#derived-fields" >}}) section in the [Loki data source]({{< relref "loki.md" >}}) or [Data links]({{< relref "elasticsearch.md#data-links" >}}) section in the [Elastic data source]({{< relref "elasticsearch.md" >}}) for configuration instructions.
